Release/3.1: changelog announcement (#812)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: changelog/front-commerce-3.1-2.27.mdx

Black Friday is fast approaching. We understand that you've been putting in a
lot of effort to get ready for the holiday season, and our support team was here
to support you every step of the way.

This release is unique as it signifies a return to our regular release schedule
**with both new features and bug fixes every 6 weeks**. This is also the
inaugural release that combines new 2.x and 3.x minor versions. Just to remind
you, Front-Commerce 3.0 was a major version that introduced **new technical
foundations without adding new features**. Now, with Front-Commerce 3.1, we're
back to delivering new features for this major version.

Some of these features are also incorporated into Front-Commerce 2.27.0,
facilitating **quicker adoption for existing projects**. As time progresses, we
anticipate more projects transitioning to 3.x, and the number of new features
released for both major versions will gradually decrease.

Let's dive in and explore what's new in Front-Commerce…

<!-- truncate -->

import ChangelogFooter from "@site/src/components/ChangelogFooter";
import BackportList from "@site/src/components/BackportList";
import ContactLink from "@site/src/components/ContactLink";

> ## Improvewents to Front-Commerce Remixed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Improvements to Front-Commerce Remixed
```

The following features and enhancements are available in Front-Commerce 3.1
only. They're direct improvements to Front-Commerce 3.0, and new features for
projects using our Remix version.

### Core stabilization!

In the process of **migrating the first Front-Commerce 2.x project to version
3.x**, we encountered and addressed several issues.

These included problems related to our Codemods assisting with large-scale
codebase refactors. We also dealt with issues concerning theme overrides, with
some edge-cases found from _real-world_ use cases.

<abbr title="Hot Module Replacement">HMR</abbr> issues were another area of focus,
as we detected some drawbacks in projects, under some circumstances. HMR is now more
stable and modules will update without requiring a full refresh in many more contexts.

We also detected shortcomings in our public API, which we addressed by exporting
more functions and types for our core packages so that they can be used by
user-land projects when building custom features.

Finally, we addressed problems with GraphQL Codegen after detecting some edge
cases preventing to generate correct TypeScript types for GraphQL schema
extensions, queries or mutations.

> **It's our top-priority to fix those issues in a timely fashion**, that's why
> we're still doing more regular alpha releases on our `main` branches for the
> next 3.x versions. We hope you'll get a great experience when working on
> Front-Commerce 3.x, either when starting a new or migrating an existing project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**It's our top-priority to fix those issues in a timely fashion**, that's why
we're still doing more regular alpha releases on our `main` branches for the
next 3.x versions. We hope you'll get a great experience when working on
Front-Commerce 3.x, either when starting a new project or migrating an existing project.
```

### Revamped <abbr title="Progressive Web App">PWA</abbr> Asset Generation

We wanted to address a common pain point detected in previous Front-Commerce
projects: **most of the time, PWA assets weren't customized when we audited
sites about to go live.**

> In this release, we've simplified the process of generating PWA assets. There is
> now a more straightforward configuration directly in your
> `front-commerce-config.ts` configuration file. With a few changes (app title,
> main brand color and icon), Front-Commerce will generate various aspects
> allowing to satisfy all PWA requirements available in Lighthouse audits, such as
> manifest, service worker, and app icons (we generate many sizes for different
> devices).
> ![A screenshot of the LightHouse PWA audit, with a successful result](assets/3.1/lh-pwa-check.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we've simplified the process of generating PWA assets. There is
now a more straightforward configuration directly in your
`front-commerce.config.ts` configuration file. With a few changes (app title,
main brand color and icon), Front-Commerce will generate various aspects
allowing to satisfy all PWA requirements available in Lighthouse audits, such as
manifest, service worker, and app icons (which generates different sizes for various
devices).
![A screenshot of the LightHouse PWA audit, with a successful result](assets/3.1/lh-pwa-check.png)
```
